Title: Indiana prepares to put bitcoin in its public retirement plans
Source: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2026/02/26/indiana-joins-seven-other-u-s-states-in-passing-bills-allowing-crypto-in-public-pensions

Indiana prepares to put bitcoin in its public retirement plans
Lawmakers pass HB 1042 allowing public funds to access bitcoin and ETFs, while banning crypto ATMs amid rising fraud concerns.
What to know:
- Indiana lawmakers approved a bill allowing public retirement and savings plans to invest in digital assets and spot crypto ETFs, with Gov. Mike Braun expected to sign it soon.
- The move places Indiana among at least 21 states that are investing in or evaluating bitcoin and other digital assets for public funds, in line with former President Donald J. Trump’s push to expand U.S. crypto holdings.
- In a separate measure, Indiana legislators voted to ban crypto ATMs statewide after law enforcement reported rising fraud, including about $400,000 in related scams in Evansville in 2025.
The Indiana state legislature authorized public retirement and savings plans to gain exposure to digital assets and spot exchange-traded funds (ETFs), while affirming residents’ access to crypto investments.
Governor Mike Braun is expected to sign HB 1042 into law within the next 10 days.
Indiana joins at least seven other states, including Wyoming, Wisconsin, Michigan and Arizona, that have moved to integrate crypto-linked products into public investment frameworks.
Almost half of the state governments in the U.S. are either on a path toward putting some of their money into crypto or already have, with much of this trend developing since President Donald Trump directed his administration to establish a Bitcoin Strategic Reserve.
A total of 21 states are investing or evaluating investments in digital assets, primarily bitcoin
The Indiana legislature passed another crypto-related measure on Tuesday banning the operation of virtual currency kiosks, commonly known as crypto ATMs, across the state. Violations would be subject to enforcement by the state attorney general under deceptive consumer sales laws.
The bill follows warnings from state and local law enforcement about rising fraud tied to crypto ATMs. In Evansville, Indiana, authorities reported that in 2025 residents lost approximately $400,000 in scams connected to the kiosks.
The Massachusetts state Attorney General filed a lawsuit against ATM operator Bitcoin Depot alleging they allowed criminals to use its machines to scam users. The FBI has estimated that in the first half of 2025, Americans lost $240 million to crypto ATM fraud and that it received nearly 11,000 ATM fraud complaints in 2024, a 99% increase from the previous year.
More For You
MrBeast editor nabbed by prediction market firm Kalshi for alleged insider trading
The company said it punished the MrBeast employee and another user it said tried to get away with contracts relying on inside information.
What to know:
- Kalshi accused two users of insider trading, including an employee of popular streaming and reality show star MrBeast who was said to make trades on the content of his shows.
- The prediction market firm suspended and fined the two users, and Beast Industries told CoinDesk it's investigating the situation with its employee.
- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission issued an advisory noting Kalshi's action and citing the cases as potential violations of law, and the agency's chairman called exchanges such as Kalshi the "first line of defense" against insider trading.