Title: Trump family-linked American Bitcoin posts $59 million Q4 loss as bitcoin price slides
Source: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2026/02/26/trump-family-linked-american-bitcoin-posts-usd59-million-q4-loss-as-bitcoin-price-slides

Trump family-linked American Bitcoin posts $59 million Q4 loss as bitcoin price slides
The bitcoin mining company now holds over 6,000 BTC, with roughly one-third acquired through mining and two-thirds through open-market purchases and strategic transactions.
What to know:
- American Bitcoin posted a fourth-quarter loss of $59 million as the plummeting price of bitcoin eroded the value of its holdings.
- The company now holds over 6,000 BTC, with roughly one-third acquired through mining and two-thirds through open-market purchases and strategic transactions.
- The company generated $185.2 million in revenue for the year and raised $150.5 million through a fourth-quarter stock offering to fund bitcoin purchases.
American Bitcoin (ABTC), the bitcoin
The company, which went public in September, less than a month before the largest cryptocurrency hit a record high, is pursuing a dual strategy of mining and purchases, with roughly one-third of its BTC coming from mining operations. The rest comes from open-market purchases and strategic transactions, funded in large part by selling stock.
The company, which is 20% owned by Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr, generated $150.5 million through an at-the-market stock offering during the quarter. The capital allowed it to boost its per-share bitcoin exposure by nearly 50%. It now holds more than 6,000 BTC, it said.
During the quarter, it mined bitcoin at a 53% gross margin, suggesting production costs were significantly below spot prices even as the price of the cryptocurrency fell. Revenue rose 22% from the third quarter.
New Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidelines require firms to mark crypto holdings to market. Bitcoin’s price fell 23% during the period, forcing American Bitcoin to report a $227 million non-cash loss.
Shares in the company are up 3.8% in pre-market trading at $1.09. They are down nearly 90% from a high of around $9 seen last year.
The company's majority owner, Hut 8 (HUT), reported fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday, sending the shares down 7% even as rivals such as MARA Holdings (MARA) and Riot Platforms (RIOT) advance.
Hut 8 said it ended the year with an 8,500 MW development pipeline. It also secured a new $200 million revolving credit facility with Two Prime and expanded its Coinbase facility to $200 million, bringing total credit capacity to $400 million.
More For You
STS Digital raises $30 million to expand crypto options platform
The Bermuda-based firm offers trading across 400+ cryptocurrencies with spot, vanilla, and exotic options, targeting institutional demand as crypto options open interest reaches $40 billion.
What to know:
- STS Digital raised $30 million from CMT Digital, Kraken exchange parent Payward and other investors to expand its institutional trading platform.
- The Bermuda-based firm offers trading across 400+ cryptocurrencies with spot, vanilla and exotic options targeting institutional demand.
- STS aims to become a foundational liquidity layer for crypto derivatives, capitalizing on growing institutional adoption of options for hedging and yield generation.