Title: 21shares-Issued Spot SUI ETF (Nasdaq: TSUI) to Begin Trading on Tuesday, Feb 24th
Source: https://blog.sui.io/21shares-spot-sui-etf-nasdaq-tsui/

21shares-Issued Spot SUI ETF (Nasdaq: TSUI) to Begin Trading on Tuesday, Feb 24th
U.S. spot ETF for the Sui ecosystem significantly expands investor access in the world's largest capital market to crypto's preeminent Layer 1 tech stack
Main Takeaways
- TSUI, a spot SUI ETF launched by 21shares, is now trading on Nasdaq, giving U.S. investors a regulated, straightforward way to gain direct exposure to SUI through their existing brokerage accounts.
- The ETF follows Sui's rapid growth as a payments and finance layer, with institutional attention building around stablecoin transfers, tokenization, and onchain settlement.
- Institutional interest in Sui continues to grow, with TSUI joining regulated products and initiatives from Bitwise, Canary Capital, Franklin Templeton, Grayscale, VanEck, and others, giving investors multiple ways to access the ecosystem.
Overview
Trading has officially commenced on the Nasdaq for TSUI, a spot SUI ETF. Launched by 21shares, a global leader in crypto exchange-traded products, the fund provides U.S. investors with a regulated, high-liquidity vehicle to gain direct exposure to Sui’s performance through their existing brokerage accounts following recent SEC approval.
It’s another major milestone in Sui’s fast track to growth as a payments platform and modern global finance layer, as a next-generation blockchain founded by the tech leaders who spearheaded Meta’s Diem and Libra initiatives, taking the next steps with Sui towards moving money as freely as messages.
“TSUI marks yet another widely available access point to Sui, leveraging the industry’s preeminent tech stack to support global payments use cases and financial applications at scale,” said Evan Cheng, Co-Founder and CEO of Mysten Labs, the original contributor to Sui. “In a little more than two years, Sui has made significant inroads into payments and cross-border settlement, which has transformed it into one of the world’s most robust onchain economies and attracted the interest of leading institutions like 21shares as a result.”
A milestone for institutional access to Sui
The ETF approval arrives amid surging institutional interest in Sui, joining a growing list of institutional-grade products or planned initiatives involving Sui, including from Bitwise, Canary Capital, Franklin Templeton, Grayscale, VanEck, and more. Institutions are turning to Sui because it’s a next-gen blockchain purpose-built for modern finance at internet scale and instant global stablecoin transfers. Its AI-native architecture already supports real-time, agentic payments executed instantly and autonomously.
21shares is a long-standing leader in digital asset financial products, offering a wide range of regulated crypto ETPs in Europe and beyond. Its further expansion in the U.S. market with a SUI spot ETF reflects broader confidence in Sui’s potential to become a foundational platform for decentralized finance and digital assets.
In December 2025, 21shares launched the first leveraged U.S. ETF tied to SUI, offering 200% daily exposure to its performance through derivatives and marking a key milestone for Sui in U.S. markets. The introduction of TSUI expands access further through a straightforward, spot-based structure.
“Following our successful launch of a leveraged SUI product, the introduction of TSUI represents the next step in expanding access to Sui through a straightforward, spot-based structure,” said Duncan Moir, President of 21shares. “Sui’s rapid ecosystem growth, technical strength, and institutional relevance were clear to us early on. We are pleased to provide U.S. investors with transparent tools to access this next-generation blockchain.”
Why a spot ETF, and why Sui?
Spot ETFs offer exposure directly tied to the underlying asset, in this case, the SUI token. This simplifies access for both institutional and retail investors seeking secure and compliant vehicles to engage with emerging blockchain ecosystems.
Sui’s traction with institutions is rooted in its unique technical design, which is unlocking opportunities across payments, tokenization, and finance, all sectors in which the finance industry is building their onchain strategies. Built using the Move programming language, Sui’s object-centric model enables scalable, low-latency, and composable infrastructure, supporting these key use cases at global scale with speed and simplicity that eliminate many of the frictions found on other chains.
Learn how Sui is powering the next wave of digital assets, or read the fund prospectus for full product information.
Important Information
Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. There is no assurance that TSUI (“the Fund”) will generate a profit for investors.
There are special risks associated with short selling and margin investing. Please ask your financial advisor for more information about these risks. SUI is a relatively new asset class, and the market for SUI is subject to rapid changes and uncertainty. SUI is largely unregulated, and SUI investments may be more susceptible to fraud and manipulation than more regulated investments.
SUI is subject to unique and substantial risks, including significant price volatility, lack of liquidity, and theft. The value of an investment in the Fund could decline significantly and without warning, including to zero. SUI is subject to rapid price swings, including as a result of actions and statements by influencers and the media, changes in the supply of and demand for SUI, and other factors. There is no assurance that SUI will maintain its value over the long-term.
The trading prices of many digital assets, including SUI, have experienced extreme volatility in recent periods and may continue to do so. Extreme volatility in the future, including further declines in the trading prices of SUI, could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Shares, and the Shares could lose all or substantially all of their value.
Failure by the Fund’s SUI Custodian to exercise due care in the safekeeping of the Fund’s SUI could result in a loss to the Fund. Shareholders cannot be assured that the SUI Custodian will maintain adequate insurance with respect to the SUI held by the custodian on behalf of the Fund.
The Fund is not actively managed and will not take any actions to take advantage of or mitigate the impacts of volatility in the price of SUI. An investment in the Fund is not a direct investment in SUI. Investors will also forgo certain rights conferred by owning SUI directly. Shares of the Fund are generally bought and sold at market price (not NAV) and are not individually redeemed from the Fund. Only Authorized Participants may trade directly with the Fund and only large blocks of Shares called "creation units." Your brokerage commissions will reduce returns.
If an active trading market for the Shares does not develop or continue to exist, the market prices and liquidity of the Shares may be adversely affected.
Shares in the Fund are not FDIC insured and may lose value and have no bank guarantee.
This material must be accompanied or preceded by a prospectus. Carefully consider the Fund’s investment objectives, risk factors, and fees and expenses before investing. For further discussion of the risks associated with an investment in the Fund, please read the Fund’s prospectus: https://www.21shares.com/en-us/product/SUI
The Marketing Agent is Foreside Global Services, LLC
21shares US LLC is the Sponsor to the Fund.
21shares is not affiliated with Foreside Global Services LLC
© 2026. 21shares US LLC. No part of this material may be reproduced in any form or referred to in any other publication without written permission.