Title: Anthropic launches new push for enterprise agents with plugins for finance, engineering, and design
Source: https://techcrunch.com/2026/02/24/anthropic-launches-new-push-for-enterprise-agents-with-plugins-for-finance-engineering-and-design/

On Tuesday, Anthropic unveiled its new enterprise agents program, its most aggressive push yet to integrate agentic AI into everyday workplaces.
In an official briefing, Anthropic’s head of Americas, Kate Jensen, told reporters that the new system would finally deliver on the promise of agentic AI. “2025 was meant to be the year agents transformed the enterprise, but the hype turned out to be mostly premature,” Jensen said. “It wasn’t a failure of effort. It was a failure of approach.”
Under the new program, companies can use the plug-in system to deploy pre-built agents to help with common enterprise tasks, including financial research and engineering specifications. The result is a major opportunity to grow Anthropic’s enterprise client base — and a significant threat to SaaS products currently performing those functions.
“We believe that the future of work means everybody having their own custom agent,” Anthropic product officer Matt Piccolella told TechCrunch.
Much of the enterprise agents program draws on previously announced technology, particularly Claude Cowork and the plugin system, which was announced in research preview on January 30th. The systems launched today are largely focused on making those tools easier to deploy within a company, including private software marketplaces, controlled data flows, and customized plugins. The result is a system for deploying Claude-powered agents with the same controls a corporate IT department would expect when deploying software.
“Admins want to be able to have really, really, really tailored workflows and skills for their specific organization,” Piccolella said. “And this allows the admin of a Claude Cowork organization to be able to do this in a very centralized way.”
The stock plugins included at launch take aim at particular departments present within most companies, including agents designed for finance, legal, and HR departments. Each plugin includes basic skills common across different companies, although Anthropic expects that companies will modify each plugin to bring it in line with unique needs and customs.
In the case of finance, the stock plugin gives Claude the basic information and data flows necessary to perform market and competitive research, financial modeling, and other common tasks for finance teams. The HR plugin includes skills for generating job descriptions, onboarding materials, and offer letters, among others.
The launch also includes a number of new enterprise connectors, including integrations for Gmail, DocuSign, and Clay, among others. Previously unavailable, these connectors will allow agents to pull in data and context directly from the linked system.