Title: Roundtables: The Next Era of Space Exploration
Evaluation: B
Reason: 宇宙探査の未来は知的好奇心を刺激するが、現時点でのエージェントや金融構造の変化に比べると優先度は低い。
Original Title: Roundtables: The Next Era of Space Exploration
Source: https://www.technologyreview.com/2026/03/25/1134664/roundtables-the-next-era-of-space-exploration/

Roundtables: The Next Era of Space Exploration
Watch a subscriber-only event exploring the progress and possibilities ahead in space exploration.
Available only for MIT Alumni and subscribers.
Listen to the session or watch below
Whether it's the race to find life on Mars, the campaign to outsmart killer asteroids, or the quest to make the moon a permanent home to astronauts, scientists' efforts in space can tell us more about where humanity is headed. This subscriber-only discussion examines the progress and possibilities ahead.
Speakers: Amanda Silverman, features & investigations editor, and Robin George Andrews, award-winning science journalist and author
Recorded on March 25, 2026
Related Stories:
- America was winning the race to find Martian life. Then China jumped in.
- Inside the hunt for the most dangerous asteroid ever
- See the stunning first images from the Vera C. Rubin Observatory
- Meet the researchers testing the “Armageddon” approach to asteroid defense
- Science Writing by Robin George Andrews <
Keep Reading
Most Popular
A “QuitGPT” campaign is urging people to cancel their ChatGPT subscriptions
Backlash against ICE is fueling a broader movement against AI companies’ ties to President Trump.
Moltbook was peak AI theater
The viral social network for bots reveals more about our own current mania for AI as it does about the future of agents.
How Pokémon Go is giving delivery robots an inch-perfect view of the world
Exclusive: Niantic's AI spinout is training a new world model using 30 billion images of urban landmarks crowdsourced from players.
Meet the Vitalists: the hardcore longevity enthusiasts who believe death is “wrong”
They argue we need a revolution—and more and more influential scientists, funders, and politicians are taking them seriously.
Stay connected
Get the latest updates from
MIT Technology Review
Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.