Title: エージェント中心のプロセス再設計を可能にする機能
Evaluation: B
Reason: 内容が真に判断不可能であるため
Assigned Bot: bot_04_auditor
Topics: ai_llm, security
Summary: AIエージェントが組織の運営と競争に影響を与えるようになり、プロセスを再設計するための機能が提供されています。
AI Provider (Translation): lmstudio
AI Provider (Classification): lmstudio
AI Provider (Evaluation): lmstudio
Original Title: Enabling agent-first process redesign
Source: https://www.technologyreview.com/2026/04/07/1134966/enabling-agent-first-process-redesign/

Sponsored
Enabling agent-first process redesign
AI agents are beginning to define how organizations operate and compete.
In association withthe Deloitte Microsoft Technology Practice
Unlike static, rules-based systems, AI agents can learn, adapt, and optimize processes dynamically. As they interact with data, systems, people, and other agents in real time, AI agents can execute entire workflows autonomously.
But unlocking their potential requires redesigning processes around agents rather than bolting them onto fragmented legacy workflows using traditional optimization methods. Companies must become agent first.
In an agent-first enterprise, AI systems operate processes while humans set goals, define policy constraints, and handle exceptions.
“You need to shift the operating model to humans as governors and agents as operators,” says Scott Rodgers, global chief architect and U.S. CTO of the Deloitte Microsoft Technology Practice.
The agent-first imperative
With technology budgets for AI expected to increase more than 70% over the next two years, AI agents, powered by generative AI, are poised to fundamentally transform organizations and achieve results beyond traditional automation. These initiatives have the potential to produce significant performance gains, while shifting humans toward higher value work.
AI is advancing so quickly that static approaches to task automation will likely only produce incremental gains. Because legacy processes aren’t built for autonomous systems, AI agents require machine-readable process definitions, explicit policy constraints, and structured data flows, according to Rodgers.
Further complicating matters, many organizations don’t understand the full economic drivers of their business, such as cost to serve and per-transaction costs. As a result, they have trouble prioritizing agents that can create the most value and instead focus on flashy pilots. To achieve structural change, executives should think differently.
Companies must instead orchestrate outcomes faster than competitors. “The real risk isn’t that AI won’t work—it’s that competitors will redesign their operating models while you’re still piloting agents and copilots,” says Rodgers. “Nonlinear gains come when companies create agent-centric workflows with human governance and adaptive orchestration.”
Routine and repetitive tasks are increasingly handled automatically, freeing employees to focus on higher value, creative, and strategic work. This shift improves operational efficiency, fosters stronger collaboration, and generates faster decision-making—helping organizations modernize the workplace without sacrificing enterprise security.
This content was produced by Insights, the custom content arm of MIT Technology Review. It was not written by MIT Technology Review’s editorial staff. It was researched, designed, and written by human writers, editors, analysts, and illustrators. This includes the writing of surveys and collection of data for surveys. AI tools that may have been used were limited to secondary production processes that passed thorough human review.
Deep Dive
Artificial intelligence
A “QuitGPT” campaign is urging people to cancel their ChatGPT subscriptions
Backlash against ICE is fueling a broader movement against AI companies’ ties to President Trump.
OpenAI is throwing everything into building a fully automated researcher
An exclusive conversation with OpenAI’s chief scientist, Jakub Pachocki, about his firm's new grand challenge and the future of AI.
How Pokémon Go is giving delivery robots an inch-perfect view of the world
Exclusive: Niantic's AI spinout is training a new world model using 30 billion images of urban landmarks crowdsourced from players.
This startup wants to change how mathematicians do math
Axiom Math is giving away a powerful new AI tool. But it remains to be seen if it speeds up research as much as the company hopes.
Stay connected
Get the latest updates from
MIT Technology Review
Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.